hello everyone in this video we're going
to talk about
http secure http and
ssl now http stands for hypertext
transfer protocol now this is probably
the most widely used protocol
in the world today http is the protocol
that is used
for viewing web pages on the internet so
when you type in a web address
like google.com you'll notice that http
is automatically added
at the beginning of the web address and
this indicates that you are now
using http to retrieve this web page
now in standard http all the information
is sent in clear text so all the
information that is exchanged between
your computer
and that web server which includes any
text that you type
on that website that information is
transferred
over the public internet and because
it's transferred in clear text
it's vulnerable to anybody who wants it
such as hackers
now normally this would not be a big
deal if you were just browsing regular
websites
and no sensitive data such as passwords
or credit card information
are being used but if you were to type
in personal sensitive data
like your name address phone number
passwords or
credit card information that sensitive
data goes from your
computer and then it has to travel
across the public internet
to get to that web server and this makes
your data
vulnerable because a hacker that's
somewhere on the internet
can listen in as that data is being
transferred
and steal your information so as you can
see this hacker is stealing
personal information as it's traveling
over the internet
so he has a name phone number
address credit card numbers and so on
so this is a problem as far as security
and this is why https was developed
https stands for secure hypertext
transfer protocol
and this is http with a security feature
secure http encrypts the data that is
being retrieved
by http it ensures that all the data
that's being transferred
over the internet between computers and
servers
is secure by making the data impossible
to read
and it does this by using encryption
algorithms
to scramble the data that's being
transferred
so for example if you were to go to a
website that requires you to enter
personal information such as passwords
or
credit card numbers you will notice that
an s will be added to the http
in the web address and this s indicates
that you are now
using secure http and have entered a
secure website
where sensitive data is going to be
passed and that data
is going to be protected and in addition
to the s
being added a lot of web browsers will
also
show a padlock symbol in the address bar
to indicate that secure
http is being used
so by using secure http all the data
which includes anything that you type is
no longer
sent in clear text it's scrambled in an
unreadable form
as it travels across the internet so if
a hacker were to try and steal your
information
he would get a bunch of meaningless data
because the data is encrypted
and the hacker would not be able to
crack the encryption to unscramble the
data
now secure http protects the data by
using one
of two protocols and one of these
protocols
is ssl ssl or secure sockets layer
is a protocol that's used to ensure
security
on the internet it uses public key
encryption to
secure data so basically this is how ssl
works
so when a computer connects to a website
that's using
ssl the computer's web browser will ask
the website to identify itself then the
web server will send the computer
a copy of its ssl certificate
an ssl certificate is a small digital
certificate
that is used to authenticate the
identity of a website
basically it's used to let your computer
know that the website you're visiting
is trustworthy so then the computer's
browser will check to make sure
that it trusts the certificate and if it
does it will
send a message to the web server then
after the web server will respond back
with an acknowledgement so an ssl
session
can proceed then after all these steps
are complete
encrypted data can now be exchanged
between your computer
and the web server and the other
protocol that secure
http can use is called tls
tls or transport layer security
is the latest industry standard
cryptographic protocol
it is the successor to ssl and it's
based on the same specifications
and like ssl it also authenticates the
server
client and encrypts the data
it's also important to point out that a
lot of websites are now using secure
http by default on their websites
regardless if sensitive data is going to
be exchanged or not
and a lot of this has to do with google
because google is now
flagging websites as not secure if they
are not protected with ssl
and if a website is not ssl protected
google will penalize
that website in their search rankings so
that's why now
if you go to any major website you'll
notice that secure
http is being used rather than standard
http
and if you're interested in getting an
ssl certificate for your website
i do have a link in the description
below for an up to 30 percent discount
on ssl certificates
domain names or websites
you